README.md, before:

# Sorting Hat

## Goals
The goal of this project is to test your knowledge and to have a FUN time stretching yourself on your FIRST independent application that will become a part of your portfolio.

Focus on MVP. Do not spend a ton of time styling initially. Hit functionality first and then spend time on the styling of the project using bootstrap.

- READ THROUGH ALL OF THE INFORMATION BELOW before planning how you will tackle the project.
- Check the Issue Tickets to organize your process. You will have all week in class to work on this in class. 
- PLEASE submit questions in help tickets if you need help. We will guide you to the resources that are available to you.
- When done, tell an instructor. Everyone will present how far they got AND their favorite piece of code that they wrote to an instructor.
- MOST OF ALL HAVE FUN!!!!!

## Instructions
You are in charge of bringing the Hogwarts sorting hat to life! 

This is what the finished app should have:
- To start off with, you will use a [bootstrap card](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/components/card/#header-and-footer) to have your sorting hat introduce itself and start the sorting process (by clicking on a button). The form should not be on the DOM until the button click happens.

- A [bootstrap form](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/forms/overview/) will then appear to fill in the student's name and a button to sort. This should then assign the student to a random house (Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw, or Slytherin). 

- On sorting a student, the form should clear and a [bootstrap card](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/components/card/) with the student's name and a random house assignment should print below the form. 

- You should also be able to expel a student after they have been sorted, which should remove their card from the student array and move them to Moldy Voldy's Army.

In the end, your app will look something like: 

![screencapture-drt-sorting-netlify-app-2022-04-23-14_28_47](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/29741570/164943525-d20275be-c312-42d1-9730-0c1fd3fd9834.png)


<!-- [See Demo](https://drt-sortinghat.netlify.app/)
 -->
## Technical Requirements
- You MUST plan your project and highly suggest using issue tickets. There are a few that have been provided for you to use already. Continue to add to these so you know what work you need to complete. 
- You MAY use the `renderToDom()` function that we worked on in class, but you also need to be able to explain it if you use it
- You have to create a data structure for your project. Review all the elements that need to be on the DOM and create the structure accordingly
- You must use [Boostrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) to style your page components
- You must use a loop other than a `for loop`
- Your JS file should be comprised of functions, no actions should happen in your code outside of a function except for your initial `startApp()` function
- Your code MUST be YOUR code. Do not copy and paste code into your project. Type every bit of it out
- Your HTML and JS should all have proper indentation
- Helpful Form: An error message shows if a user tries to sort a student without filling out the form
- Voldermort's Army: Create a separate container of cards that hold the cards for students that have been expelled. These should be styled differently from Hogwarts students.
- Add filter buttons to filter the non-expelled students by house

## DEFINITION OF DONE
Once you have completed all the technical requirments, you should complete the following:
- [README Requirements](https://github.com/orgs/nss-evening-web-development/discussions/13)
- **RECOMMENDED** Loom Video: [Sign up for Loom](https://www.loom.com/signup) and record a video of you walking through your app 

## Expel Button Hints
Think of a way you can expel students without just hiding those divs on the page. This would mean when the button is clicked you modify the array of students and pass the new array into your `renderToDom()` function.  Double hint - put a unique id in the student object when you create them.

## Optional Bonus
- House Colors: The color of the student's card changes depending on which house they were sorted.
- Card Sorting/Ordering: Sort the student cards by some criteria (i.e. alphabetically by name, by house)

Commit message:

almost done - still working on final functionality of delete and expel buttons on Voldemort's Army cards.

README.md, after:

# Sorting Hat

These are the requirements for your README on every repo you create while at NSS:
Name of the Project: INDIVIDUAL-PROJECT-sorting-hate
Overview of the project: This website shows a pre-existing array of the Wizarding World of Harry Potter students. The website visitor can enter his/her name and then hit submit to be randomly sorted into a Harry Potter house (Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw, or Slytherin). They will then see their name on a new student card among the existing students. The user can then either delete any of the students (incluind himself/herself) or expel them into Voldemort's Army.
Link to your wireframes/prototype: N/A
Link/screenshot of data flowchart: N/A
Link to the deployed project (will learn later): N/A
Link to your project board (yes...even though it is a part of the repo): ?
Description of the user and the problem you are solving for them: I created a website through which Harry Potter fans can place themselves into a random Wizarding World of Harry Potter House and then have fun by deleting themselves or other students or expelling students to Voldemort's Army.
List of features: Array of existing students, a form for website visitorws to fill-out to place themselves in a Harry Potter House, buttons for the visitor to use to delete students or expel to Voldemort's Army.
Screenshots of your project: ??
List of contributors and links to their GH profiles: Myself
Link to Loom video walkthrough of your app (no more than 1 minute long! Make it great):

## Goals

The goal of this project is to test your knowledge and to have a FUN time stretching yourself on your FIRST independent application that will become a part of your portfolio.

Focus on MVP. Do not spend a ton of time styling initially. Hit functionality first and then spend time on the styling of the project using bootstrap.

- READ THROUGH ALL OF THE INFORMATION BELOW before planning how you will tackle the project.
- Check the Issue Tickets to organize your process. You will have all week in class to work on this in class.
- PLEASE submit questions in help tickets if you need help. We will guide you to the resources that are available to you.
- When done, tell an instructor. Everyone will present how far they got AND their favorite piece of code that they wrote to an instructor.
- MOST OF ALL HAVE FUN!!!!!

## Instructions

You are in charge of bringing the Hogwarts sorting hat to life!

This is what the finished app should have:

- To start off with, you will use a [bootstrap card](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/components/card/#header-and-footer) to have your sorting hat introduce itself and start the sorting process (by clicking on a button). The form should not be on the DOM until the button click happens.

- A [bootstrap form](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/forms/overview/) will then appear to fill in the student's name and a button to sort. This should then assign the student to a random house (Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw, or Slytherin).

- On sorting a student, the form should clear and a [bootstrap card](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.0/components/card/) with the student's name and a random house assignment should print below the form.

- You should also be able to expel a student after they have been sorted, which should remove their card from the student array and move them to Moldy Voldy's Army.

In the end, your app will look something like:

![screencapture-drt-sorting-netlify-app-2022-04-23-14_28_47](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/29741570/164943525-d20275be-c312-42d1-9730-0c1fd3fd9834.png)

<!-- [See Demo](https://drt-sortinghat.netlify.app/)
 -->

## Technical Requirements

- You MUST plan your project and highly suggest using issue tickets. There are a few that have been provided for you to use already. Continue to add to these so you know what work you need to complete.
- You MAY use the `renderToDom()` function that we worked on in class, but you also need to be able to explain it if you use it
- You have to create a data structure for your project. Review all the elements that need to be on the DOM and create the structure accordingly
- You must use [Boostrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) to style your page components
- You must use a loop other than a `for loop`
- Your JS file should be comprised of functions, no actions should happen in your code outside of a function except for your initial `startApp()` function
- Your code MUST be YOUR code. Do not copy and paste code into your project. Type every bit of it out
- Your HTML and JS should all have proper indentation
- Helpful Form: An error message shows if a user tries to sort a student without filling out the form
- Voldermort's Army: Create a separate container of cards that hold the cards for students that have been expelled. These should be styled differently from Hogwarts students.
- Add filter buttons to filter the non-expelled students by house

## DEFINITION OF DONE

Once you have completed all the technical requirments, you should complete the following:

- [README Requirements](https://github.com/orgs/nss-evening-web-development/discussions/13)
- **RECOMMENDED** Loom Video: [Sign up for Loom](https://www.loom.com/signup) and record a video of you walking through your app

## Expel Button Hints

Think of a way you can expel students without just hiding those divs on the page. This would mean when the button is clicked you modify the array of students and pass the new array into your `renderToDom()` function. Double hint - put a unique id in the student object when you create them.

## Optional Bonus

- House Colors: The color of the student's card changes depending on which house they were sorted.
- Card Sorting/Ordering: Sort the student cards by some criteria (i.e. alphabetically by name, by house)
